Welcome back how was that very successful in writing a few types.
I'm going to show you what I would have done if I've gone through these files.
Now keep in mind that this isn't the only way.
There are many many solutions to the problem but hopefully you'll learn a thing or two just by watching
me add types to these files.
Now the first thing I actually wanted to show you is something that came by default in our Creator re-act
app typescript file in the index TSX.
We see that we have in the re-act render function document get aliment by id root as a shemale element.
And remember this is assertion type syntax.
So we're saying hey trust us don't try to do any type inferences or anything like that.
This is an HMO element.
And as you can see here if I hover over it it's an interface a shemale element that wall is a nation
moment and we get that out of the box from Definitely typed.
You can see that there is an interface a shemale element.
Just wanted to show you that in case some of you were wandering.
All right let's start writing some typescript.
I'm going to start off with card lists because it's going to be a nice and simple one.
Remember that I already wrote for you a few things over here at the top of app dot TSX.
Now in here the first thing I'm going to do let's go to Carlist over here I see that I'm receiving the
robots and in app or TSX I have this interface robot that I've already created and I've already exported
so I can just import this and use this as my type.
So let's go back here.
I'm going to say import interface robot from our container file or container folder and let's do hop.
And now in here I can just simply say that robots should be.
And this syntax is a little bit different because we are destructuring here.
So we're going to have an object that has the robot's of array.
Robot or robot.
Just double check that is I Robot.
So again I'm going to make this a little bit smaller so you can see I'm saying that these robots will
have a type of array with the interface.
And each of the cerate is going to be an object of the interface robot to save.
And I get a bit of an error.
That's good to get yours because we can make sure that things are working.
I see that container's doesn't exist because I need to go a folder up.
All right.
Well that's working.
We've added some types.
That's great.
Now let's go to another Follistim card.
The card file is an interesting one.
I'm going to introduce something new here called the stainless functional component.
Let's just create an interface here of name email ID.
I know that we could use the robot interface here but let's just try something new.
I'm going to say interface and I'm going to just say Card stayed less Propp or prop's and this interface
is going to have a name that is string email that is also string and then an ID that is number
and now in here I can say that this concert card is going to be a re-act dot stateless functional component.
And do you see how I have auto completion already.
Again out of the box we have hints of why we can add.
And if you go over here to react we have a ton of attributes that we can enter such a stateless functional
component.
And if you're wondering like this seems random Where do you even get that from.
Remember we have our node module folder and in the types we go to react to an index Dot T will have
the SFA see type well see let's see where it comes up.
Some are on here.
There it is misyar Assef seat type but our editor gives us enough hint to know that we have a react
as.
And this stalest functional component and it gives you again a some hint We'll have the card stateless
prop's type.
Let me save.
All right.
And that's working.
If I change this to string that's going to fail.
Perfect.
So things are working.
All right.
Let's go to another component.
Let me close this and let's do the scroll component.
In the skirl component we see that we're just receiving props.
We're not doing any destructuring so we can do something interesting here we can say that type props
and remember they're a little bit similar to interface just a few minor things that we can't do with
them.
And in here I'm going to say that the children because remember we have props children here.
The children are going to equal GSX.
And again we get ideas of what we want it to be.
We want a GSX element.
So we want the children to have the type of GSX element GSX is the syntax that we use with respect.
And if we go to app dot TSX we see that in the scroll.
The child is a GSX element.
So if I say that we still need to add that type with a type I have to do equal here.
And then for prop's I can just say prop's and we make sure that we're always rendering a GSX element
inside of the scroll component.
And by the way maybe we might have times where we don't have any children.
Maybe we might want to use this component as something that doesn't always render children.
In that case let's just add a question mark here.
So it could or could not work with props or children.
Nice.
Let's keep going and do the search box.
Now we have some interesting things happening with the search box mainly the on change the search change
event.
So let's do something here let's say that the interface is going to be called the interface search box
props.
And I know I'm changing the naming convention but I just want to show multiple ways of doing it.
And in here the props.
Well it's the search change Propp.
So this search change is what is search change if we remember search change is something that takes
an event.
And if we go to app dot TSX we see that on search change is just an event that doesn't return anything
just updates the state.
Now how can we do this.
And this one's a little bit tricky.
I will say that this will take an event this event.
Well what's this event going to be.
If you remember it's an on Change event but react underneath the hood has its own version of the HMO
implementation of on change.
Again if you go to typed types and react you'll see that they have something called re-act synthetic
events.
And again don't worry if you didn't know this if you Googled anything to do with events for react they'll
actually tell you what you should do for events so it doesn't mean that you didn't know how to do this
is just one of those things that you'll learn you just have to learn it once and then it becomes standard.
So let's say that this is going to be re-act synthetic event.
You see that I have that completion and this synthetic event is going to be an HMO
element because we have the input element so it's an event that is coming from an input element I guess
that it's a little bit tricky.
And then finally So that's the parameter it's going to return void.
So I'm going to return anything.
So I'm going to save
and is declared but its value is never you never read my search box props.
Let's add that now I'm going to say that this search change will be the high search box prop's right.
Everything is passing.
Very cool.
All right.
We've done our components.
Let's go to the app dot TSX.
As you saw over here I've already done a few things for you and we have a Riak component that takes
props and state.
And this is again pretty standard.
You can see over here in the bottom that says class Riak component and it receives props and state.
You'll see this a lot when working with react.
And we've defined already that the state and the empty props.
Now the next thing we want to do is to perhaps in the constructor function also give it the high cap
props so interface of the props and let's scroll down here to the search change.
This time we've already done.
We know that this is going to be a re-act synthetic event that is will be an HMO input element.
And remember that this function is going to return.
Let me just make this a little bit bigger is going to just return void.
Let's save.
Everything is working.
And we could also let's say for component demand that it's not returning anything so we can just do
voyde here.
Same with the render or render if we do voyde is not going to work because it is returning an element
so we can just say re-act dot element or in our case we could just say GSX
perfect and you're starting to get the idea behind this there's more types that we can add but hopefully
you feel comfortable to add types to a Riak component.
You see now the part of having the type declarations.
Remember if we go to package Jason we have the at types.
There's no way we would have been able to say react Daut synthetic event or GSX or SFE for statelets
functional components.
Those are all coming from re-act the types by re-act again anytime we use a third party library we might
want to check that we can get the type declarations from Definitely typed website like I showed you
over all.
Once you get away from the awkwardness of the syntax if it's your first time seeing it there are definitely
some really nice things that happen for us for example.
Now if for some reason I never send the ID parameter or let's say that in this card component I never
pass down the ID if I save this high immediately get an error before I even 8 am able to see the app.
I mean here we get it because we get that error from create react up.
But it doesn't even start to run our app because hey we already know it's not going to work as intended
because you've told me that we need an ID property on car.
All right that's it for now.
Hope you had fun with this challenge.
And as always I'll see you in the next video.